README.md, before:

# Cat Breed Chooser

![Cat Breed Chooser](./planning/CatBreedChooserSite.png)

As the COVID-19 pandemic drags on and on, the familiar surroundings of home and hearth become - well - *_too_* familiar. After being trapped inside and not able to socialize because heath is valuable, a person must alter the familiar and implement new socialization strategies. The acquisition of a pet is a necessity. And that pet should be a cat.<br>

The pet options really boil down to choosing either a cat or a dog. A dog might be tempting, but dogs require outdoor exercise. Going outdoors means exposing your precious health to the disease-ridden, unwashed masses of unknown vaccination status. Cats do not require outdoor exercise and therefore do not require you to put your health at risk on a daily basis. Both a cat and a dog will provide a welcome change the familiar, but only a cat will allow you to stay safe and healthy inside your dwelling.<br>

The purpose of this project is to assist people with deciding which breed of cat would be best for them.
<br><br>

# Installation Instructions
If you would like install this project on your computer rather than use the online version hosted at https://cat-breed-chooser.herokuapp.com, you may clone this repository to your computer.<br>

After cloning the repository, make sure you have the dependencies installed before following the instructions on how to run the project. 

## Dependencies
- git (https://git.scm.com/downloads)
- node.js (https://nodejs.org/en/downloads)
- angular (https://angular.io/cli)

## Run the Project
- Open a command line / terminal
- Navigate to the cloned project directory. 
- Run the command: ```npm install``` (this will install node project dependencies)
- Run the command: ```ng serve --open``` (this will run and open the project in a web browser)
<br><br>

# Technologies Used
- Angular Cli
- Bootstrap
- Git
- Lucid.app (site design)
- Node.js
- Postman
- VS Code (IDE)
- WebStorm (IDE)
<br><br>

# Design

My original design for the side was to have a header with a navigation area on the left that dropped down into a left-side column.<br>

As I got further into the project I realized that while the original design would work great on a standard website, having a responsive mobile layout would be more difficult to implement.<br>

I pivoted to a simpler site that has essentially the same layout whether the user is on a traditional computer or a mobile device. <br>

I chose bootstrap as a CSS framework because I am interested in learning more about bootstrap and because it offers some built-in responsiveness. However, I also spiced the project with some vanilla CSS in places where I didn't want to use the default bootstrap options.
## Site Wireframes
| Original | Final |   
| --- | --- |   
| <img src="./planning/CatBreedChooserDesign-ORIGINAL.png" height=300px> | <img src="./planning/CatBreedChooserDesign-MVP.png" height=300px> |   
<br><br>

# User Stories

<br><br>


# Hurdles Overcome

<br><br>

# Unresolved Issues

<br><br>

Commit message:

adding user stories and future goals

README.md, after:

# Cat Breed Chooser

![Cat Breed Chooser](./planning/CatBreedChooserSite.png)

As the COVID-19 pandemic drags on and on, the familiar surroundings of home and hearth become - well - *_too_* familiar. After being trapped inside and not able to socialize because heath is valuable, a person must alter the familiar and implement new socialization strategies. The acquisition of a pet is a necessity. And that pet should be a cat.<br>

The pet options really boil down to choosing either a cat or a dog. A dog might be tempting, but dogs require outdoor exercise. Going outdoors means exposing your precious health to the disease-ridden, unwashed masses of unknown vaccination status. Cats do not require outdoor exercise and therefore do not require you to put your health at risk on a daily basis. Both a cat and a dog will provide a welcome change the familiar, but only a cat will allow you to stay safe and healthy inside your dwelling.<br>

The purpose of this project is to assist people with deciding which breed of cat would be best for them.
<br><br>

# Installation Instructions
If you would like install this project on your computer rather than use the online version hosted at https://cat-breed-chooser.herokuapp.com, you may clone this repository to your computer.<br>

After cloning the repository, make sure you have the dependencies installed before following the instructions on how to run the project. 

## Dependencies
- git (https://git.scm.com/downloads)
- node.js (https://nodejs.org/en/downloads)
- angular (https://angular.io/cli)

## Run the Project
- Open a command line / terminal
- Navigate to the cloned project directory. 
- Run the command: ```npm install``` (this will install node project dependencies)
- Run the command: ```ng serve --open``` (this will run and open the project in a web browser)
<br><br>

# Technologies Used
- Angular Cli
- Bootstrap
- Git
- Lucid.app (site design)
- Node.js
- Postman
- VS Code (IDE)
- WebStorm (IDE)
<br><br>

# Design

My original design for the side was to have a header with a navigation area on the left that dropped down into a left-side column.<br>

As I got further into the project I realized that while the original design would work great on a standard website, having a responsive mobile layout would be more difficult to implement.<br>

I pivoted to a simpler site that has essentially the same layout whether the user is on a traditional computer or a mobile device. <br>
## Site Wireframes
| Original | Final |   
| --- | --- |   
| <img src="./planning/CatBreedChooserDesign-ORIGINAL.png" height=300px> | <img src="./planning/CatBreedChooserDesign-MVP.png" height=300px> |   

## Bootstrap
I chose bootstrap as a CSS framework because I am interested in learning more about bootstrap and because it offers some built-in responsiveness. However, I also spiced the project with some vanilla CSS in places where I didn't want to use the default bootstrap options.<br>

## Searching
Rather than choose to search cat breeds one parameter at a time, I chose to search using one query that contained all parameters. I did this by using a form to fill out the query information, taking the time to make sure the form populates with data values.

<br><br>

# User Stories
All user stories assume the user is interested in getting a new cat and wants to do some initial research about the different breeds of cat available. 

## MVP 
-[x] As a user, I want to be able to browse the different breeds of cat so that I can do some research on breeds I know and find out if they will be a good choice for me.   
-[x] As a user who has children, I want to be able to search for cats that a good with children so I don't have to worry about cats and children not getting along.   
-[x] As a user who values intelligence, I want to be able to search for cat breeds that are at or above a certain intelligence threshold.   
-[x] As a user who likes clean animals, I want to be able to search cat breeds and exclude those breeds who are not up to my standards.

## Future Goals
- As a user, I want to be able to search for more cat breed characteristics.   
        - _The backend database has more data that could be accessed - it is just a matter of finding the time to expand the frontend query form and update the backend to return more data._   
        - _There is always the option to return more data by default, but sending an entire database the frontend on a query defeats the purpose of having a backend._
- As a user, I want to be able to login to the site and keep track of the different cat breeds in which I am interested.   
        - _Most of the backend code to allow this is already in place, but needs to be implemented._
        - _In order to correctly implement user accounts, I would want to use available authentication services such as Google Authenticator and other similar tools._

<br><br>


# Hurdles Overcome

<br><br>

# Unresolved Issues

<br><br>
